Documentation update: other (#732)
flame-engine/flame: doc/game.md

# Game Loop

The Game Loop module is a simple abstraction over the game loop concept. Basically most games are
built upon two methods:

 - The render method takes the canvas for drawing the current state of the game.

>  - The update method receives the delta time in seconds since last update and allows you to move to

Author: Fixed

# BaseGame

`BaseGame` is the most basic and most commonly used `Game` class in Flame.

The `BaseGame` class implements a `Component` based `Game` for you; basically it has a list of
`Component`s and passes the `update` and `render` calls to all `Component`s that have been added to
the game. You can still extend those methods to add custom behavior, and you will get a few other
features for free, like the passing of `resize` methods (every time the screen is resized the
information will be passed to the resize methods of all your components) and also a basic camera

> feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature.

We refer to this component based system as the Flame Component System, FCS for short.
```

> The `BaseGame.camera` controls which point in the coordinate space that should be the top-left of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BaseGame.camera` controls which point in the coordinate space should be the top-left of
```

Author: Isn't it easier to read with "that" there?

Reviewer: Imo I found that it made it harder to read. And context wise it felt it didnt fit.

`Which point in the coordinate space that should`, what does that reference, the point? If so we can remove it because we are still talking about that point.

the screen (it defaults to [0,0] like a regular `Canvas`).

A `BaseGame` implementation example can be seen below:

```dart
class MyCrate extends SpriteComponent {
  // creates a component that renders the crate.png sprite, with size 16 x 16
  MyCrate() : super(size: Vector2.all(16));

  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    sprite = await Sprite.load('crate.png');
    anchor = Anchor.center;
  }

  @override
  void onGameResize(Vector2 gameSize) {
    // We don't need to set the position in the constructor, we can it directly here since it will
    // be called once before the first time it is rendered.
    position = gameSize / 2;
  }
}

class MyGame extends BaseGame {
  MyGame() {
    add(MyCrate());
  }
}

main() {
  final myGame = MyGame();
  runApp(
    GameWidget(
      game: myGame,
    )
  );
}
```

> **Note:** Do not instantiate your game in a build method. Instead you should create an instance of

Author: Good idea, updated the text according to that. Can you check again?

>  your game and reference it within your widget structure, like it is done it in the example above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 your game and reference it within your widget structure, like it is done in the example above.
```

do eeeeeeet

 Otherwise your game will be rebuilt every time the Flutter tree gets rebuilt.

To remove components from the list on a `BaseGame` the `remove` or `removeAll` methods can be used.

> The first if you just want to remove one component, and the second if you want to remove a list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first can be used if you just want to remove one component, and the second can be used when you want to remove a list of
```

components.

> Any component that which the `remove()` method has been called on will also be removed, that is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any component on which the `remove()` method has been called will also be removed. You can do this
```

> simply called like this `yourComponent.remove();`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simply by doing `yourComponent.remove();`.
```

## Debug mode

Flame's `BaseGame` class provides a variable called `debugMode`, which by default is `false`. It can

> however, be set to `true` to enable debug features for the components of the game. __Be aware__ that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
however, be set to `true` to enable debug features for the components of the game. **Be aware** that
```

> the value of this variable is passed through to its component when they are added to the game, so if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the value of this variable is passed through to its components when they are added to the game, so if
```

> you change the `debugMode` in runtime, it will not affect already added components by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you change the `debugMode` at runtime, it will not affect already added components by default.
```

To read more about the `debugMode` on Flame, please refer to the [Debug Docs](debug.md)

> # Game

Author: I think the other way around, people are lazy when reading docs and if they leave the page with one more piece of knowledge, it should be about the BaseGame. But we can discuss that in the chat.

> # Game

Reviewer: I agree with @spydon on this, `Game` is not for the common user.

> # Game

Reviewer 2: But since it is the base of everything,IMO it makes sense to be introduced first, but no harm on being after too

> # Game

Author: You are right that it is the base of everything, but it is a base that the most common user doesn't need to know about until being more advanced I think.

> The `Game` class is a low-level API that can be used if you want to implement the functionality of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Game` class is a low-level API that can be used when you want to implement the functionality of
```

> how the game engine should handle most things yourself. `Game` does not implement any `update` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how the game engine should be structured. `Game` does not implement any `update` or
```

> `render` function for example and is therefore marked as abstract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`render` function for example and is therefore marked as abstract.

**Note**: While the `Game` class allows for more freedom, we do not recommend working with it unless you know what you are doing. The `BaseGame` class provides most functionality that you would need already out of the box and has different optimization things in place for a smooth gaming experience.
```

# BaseGame

`BaseGame` is the most basic and most commonly used `Game` class in Flame.

The `BaseGame` class implements a `Component` based `Game` for you; basically it has a list of
`Component`s and passes the `update` and `render` calls to all `Component`s that have been added to
the game. You can still extend those methods to add custom behavior, and you will get a few other
features for free, like the passing of `resize` methods (every time the screen is resized the
information will be passed to the resize methods of all your components) and also a basic camera

> feature.

Reviewer 3: camera and viewport

> We refer to this component based system as the Flame Component System, FCS for short.

Reviewer 3: should we take this opportunity to mention it's loosely based on ECS but not quite the same, but that we do provide ecs via oxygen -> link to the docs. just to avoid confusion.

Author: I think @wolfenrain wanted to add that once Oxygen is more "done"?
Is FCS really loosely based on ECS? It kind of lacks all the core principles of ECS?

The `BaseGame.camera` controls which point in the coordinate space should be the top-left of the
screen (it defaults to [0,0] like a regular `Canvas`).

A `BaseGame` implementation example can be seen below:

```dart
class MyCrate extends SpriteComponent {
  // creates a component that renders the crate.png sprite, with size 16 x 16
  MyCrate() : super(size: Vector2.all(16));

  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    sprite = await Sprite.load('crate.png');
    anchor = Anchor.center;
  }

  @override
  void onGameResize(Vector2 gameSize) {
    // We don't need to set the position in the constructor, we can it directly here since it will
    // be called once before the first time it is rendered.
    position = gameSize / 2;
  }
}

class MyGame extends BaseGame {
  MyGame() {
    add(MyCrate());
  }
}

main() {
  final myGame = MyGame();
  runApp(
    GameWidget(
      game: myGame,

>     )

Reviewer 3: missing trailing comma

Reviewer 3: or you can alternatively inline everything

Any component on which the `remove()` method has been called will also be removed. You can do this
simply by doing `yourComponent.remove();`.

## Debug mode

Flame's `BaseGame` class provides a variable called `debugMode`, which by default is `false`. It can
however, be set to `true` to enable debug features for the components of the game. **Be aware** that
the value of this variable is passed through to its components when they are added to the game, so
if you change the `debugMode` at runtime, it will not affect already added components by default.

To read more about the `debugMode` on Flame, please refer to the [Debug Docs](debug.md)

# Game

The `Game` class is a low-level API that can be used when you want to implement the functionality of
how the game engine should be structured. `Game` does not implement any `update` or
`render` function for example and is therefore marked as abstract.

**Note**: While the `Game` class allows for more freedom, we do not recommend working with it unless
 you know what you are doing. The `BaseGame` class provides most functionality that you would need
 already out of the box and has different optimization things in place for a smooth gaming

>  experience.

Reviewer 3: I think this is slightly too harsh :p

}
```

# GameLoop

The `GameLoop` module is a simple abstraction over the game loop concept. Basically most games are
built upon two methods:

 - The render method takes the canvas for drawing the current state of the game.
 - The update method receives the delta time in seconds since the last update and allows you to move
  to the next state.

The `GameLoop` is used by all of Flame's `Game` implementations.

# Flutter Widgets and Game instances

Since a Flame game can be wrapped in a widget, it is quite easy to use it alongside other Flutter
widgets. But still, there is the Widgets Overlay API that makes things even easier.

`Game.overlays` enables to any Flutter widget to be shown on top of a game instance, this makes it

> very easy to create things like a pause menu, or an inventory screen for example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
very easy to create things like a pause menu or an inventory screen.
```

(like already means it's a list of examples)

Author: I haven't written the sentence, but I think it flows a lot better with `for example` in the end, and it underpins the point that pretty much anything could be done with the widgets and that these two things are just examples of how widgets are commonly used.

This property that will be used to manage the active overlays.

This management happens via the `game.overlays.add` and `game.overlays.remove` methods that marks an
overlay to be shown or hidden, respectively, via a `String` argument that identifies the overlay.
After that it can be specified which widgets represent each overlay in the `GameWidget` declaration
by setting a `overlayBuilderMap`.

```dart
// Inside game methods:
final pauseOverlayIdentifier = "PauseMenu";

overlays.add(pauseOverlayIdentifier); // Marks "PauseMenu" to be rendered.

> overlays.remove(pauseOverlayIdentifier); // Marks "PauseMenu" to not be rendered.

Reviewer 3: single quotes PLEASE

Reviewer 3: same below :)
